Previously on Supergirl...
I think he likes you.
I'm his boss.
That's some ship
you got there.
Who's in the other chambers?
We call ourselves The Legion.
This is your purpose.
To fight the devil.
I have been trying to get you
to embrace your humanity,
but forget that.
Be cold. Be alien.
All I am is
truth and judgment.
And I will reign.
It's you.
Can I help you?
Now you're talking to me.
Supergirl is talking to me.
Inside. Now.
I am Brainiac-5.
Half-computer,
half-organic lifeform,
all Coluan, and, not to brag,
but a 12th-level intellect.
My name is Querl Dox,
but the Legionnaires
just call me Brainy.
Legionnaires?
Did Mon
Yes, yes. To make sure
that your neural pathways
are clear and intact.
You brain is in
truly remarkable health
for someone languishing
in a coma.
Uh, I'm sorry,
did you say "coma"?
Mmm, did I bury the lede?
You've been in a coma
for two days.
I'm in my loft.
Wow. Oh.
You mean the physical
manifestation
of the place in which your
subconscious feels most
comfortable?
That loft?
If I'm in a coma,
how are you here?
Mon-El woke me up
from hypersleep to
communicate with you
on behalf of him
and your DEO compatriots.
31st century technology.
It's also what's
keeping you alive.
Alive?
Reign defeated you.
Don't you remember?
Stay with me, Kara,
stay with me.
No, this is crazy. This...
Reign is still out there.
People are dying,
I have to wake up.
I don't think
you're listening to me.
What?
-Can we just, maybe,
relax a little bit?
Damn it! It won't open!
Well, the good news is
her mind is active and alert.
-Oh, thank God.
-Yes.
The bad news is,
she is very angry.
Well, I'm sure she loves being
trapped inside a mind prison.
You're speaking with her right
now, even as you're speaking
with us?
The crown connects
to my internal AI core.
It translates
her brainwaves to English
and sends electronic signals
back to her.
These tanks have
incredible healing power,
so she just needs to rest
and let it do its work.
You're from the future,
did you know this
was gonna happen?
No, but she's through
the worst of it, she'll live.
But when will she wake up?
We don't know.
Well, Reign is still out there.
I don't like our odds
without Supergirl by our side.
I mean, Reign's been quiet,
maybe she got injured, too.
Let's hope so.
It's only a matter of time
before she strikes again.
Oh, crap!
-Ah! Okay, stop. Hold on!
Pause game!
And you thought
I was gonna break something.
Ah, jeez.
That's Clara.
-The movie's in half an hour.
Okay. Well, you're making me
dinner tonight, right?
It's your turn.
Any dietary restrictions
I should know about?
I'm allergic to bad food.
Okay.
Well, save up for dinner.
Don't eat too much.
Mom?
Love you.
You have done well, my child.
You easily vanquished the
daughter of the House of El.
You left your mark
on this city.
But there is much
yet to be accomplished.
What would you have me do?
This world needs
to be cleansed,
not just of sinners
but those who harbor them.
It is time to deliver
the awakening.
How?
Those who would do evil operate
in broad daylight
without shame.
For the righteous have cast
their eyes to the ground.
Force their gaze
back to the light.
Show them what
justice really is.
It's been two days
since the world
saw Supergirl be brutalized
and still not a word about her
whereabouts or well-being.
She'll turn up.
I hope so.
And Kara's the only reporter
who had a knack for
tracking her down.
Is she in yet?
Kara? She...
No, she's, um...
No, she's not, actually.
James, I was thinking,
when Kara gets in,
maybe we should
all have a little...
A little talk about
what happened.
-Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Yes, we should. Yeah.
It's just that, you know,
we all work together,
and we're Kara's
two best friends,
and you guys used to date,
so she should know
that we kissed.
Definitely.
I come from a family
that lies, and we all know
how that turns out, so...
Why have you come here?
To deliver a message.
We are not your messengers.
Yes, you are.
You.
-Turn your camera on me.
This man was a thief,
condemned by his own actions.
You've allowed sin to take root
and fester like a weed.
And, worst of all,
you have looked away.
Apathy is the
greatest sin of all.
From now on
it will be punished in kind.
There will be no more mercy.
There will only be justice.
I'm here to help.
She's declaring
war on criminality
in National City.
Not just
against the criminals,
it's against
the entire justice system.
We have to stop her.
Without Supergirl?
I mean, we have
a literal legion
of superheros here.
I owe you all my life.
And I hope you know
that I would do anything
I could for you.
But, unfortunately,
this can't be our fight.
Surely we can
help them somehow.
If we die now we will
endanger the future.
What do you mean?
-We're on a mission.
-Careful.
Our involvement here
could jeopardize that.
I can tell you what we do know.
We know that Supergirl lives.
And we know that eventually
Reign will leave.
So that's...
That's all you can give?
That's all you got?
We really don't know
much at all.
In the year 2455,
Earth experienced
a third-degree
extinction phenomenon.
Humanity came together,
but Earth suffered
catastrophic destruction.
It wasn't just loss of life,
it was its history,
culture, art, music.
It was everything interesting.
Mon-El taught us
everything we know.
From Aristotle,
Shakespeare, Bon Jovi.
But we have some gaps.
And, unfortunately,
even if we know the end result,
we don't necessarily know
how it happens.
So we know
that Supergirl lives,
and we know that Reign leaves,
eventually.
But before she does,
she could slaughter thousands.
Yeah, so what do we do now?
The Sundown Protocol.
A highly-classified contingency
plan to take down Superman
if ever he turns against us.
Red sun grenades, sound bombs,
Kryptonite darts,
everything we'd need
to take down a rogue
Kryptonian on the loose.
Sorry, we don't have
any more Kryptonite.
Clark got rid of it all.
Clark got rid of it
for a reason,
and a reason
that Kara agreed to.
That was before Reign.
We still have the Kryptonite
from Coville's probe, right?
Prep whatever you have to,
but before you use it,
there's someone
I have to talk to.
Ooh!
Your eye! What happened to you?
Oh. I was spreading the truth
to my fellow inmates.
They would have
preferred I lied.
Do you want to spread
a little truth to me?
I'll pass it along
to Supergirl.
You're her biggest fan, right?
She said that you knew
about the reign of the beast.
What else do you know
that can help us beat her?
Beat her?
She's already won.
No. Supergirl's still alive.
She was supposed to rise,
find her faith,
and deliver it.
But Supergirl refused her faith
and she failed the test.
Supergirl will defeat her.
You just have to
help us stop her.
Supergirl lost
so that Reign can prepare us
for what comes next.
Never underestimate Supergirl.
Hey. Just put out
a press release
telling the city that CatCo
is no longer under siege
and urging the public
to stay calm.
Calm?
The streets are desolate.
People are barricading
themselves in their homes.
The city is terrified.
Yeah, but there are people
out there working
to rectify the situation.
Okay? Don't worry.
Um...
James, I know why you were
acting strange earlier on.
No, you don't.
Listen, there's
no reason to explain.
We're both adults,
we're just not a match.
No, no, no,
no, no, no, no. I wasn't...
No. No. I didn't say that.
It was... It was Kara.
You're acting awkward
because you guys used to date?
No. No, that's not it, either.
-She's just...
She's sick. She's sick.
She has the flu.
It's just a really, really,
really, really, really bad flu.
It's just...
You know how people get
when they get a flu,
they get vulnerable.
God, she won't
mind me knowing.
I'm her best friend.
You know,
I should go over there.
Yeah, that's good.
You're a good friend.
-But...
Soup.
-Sick people love soup.
-Okay, I'll get her some soup.
-Minestrone--
-Yeah. Soup.
Tomato, chicken noodle,
anything that could...
Winn, I need
your help right now.
This is torture.
Out of all the 4,237,642
versions of our first meeting
that I envisioned,
you calling it "torture"
wasn't one of them.
What are you doing?
Checking for brain damage.
In simulacra,
like the one we're in now,
brain damage could present
itself in any number of ways.
Mildew, mold. Rats indicate
neurological issues.
It's just to prepare you
for reality re-entry.
Reality re
If you're not properly prepared
when we wake you up,
you could go into shock.
Some people die immediately.
Yeah.
Wait, though. Does...
Does that mean
I'm ready to wake up?
Did I bury the lede again?
Yes! Okay, do I need
to do anything?
Well, your loft is
the manifestation
of your subconscious.
And that door seems to be
the only way in or out.
My assumption,
walk through it.
It's starting to drain.
She's ready.
Kara, it's me.
She should be fine.
It's not opening.
You should be fine.
Why isn't she waking up?
Why won't this open?
Your body is fine.
We drained the tank,
you suffered no ill-effects
from the hibernation.
Then why am I
still stuck in my brain?
There's nothing wrong
with your brain.
We've ruled that out.
Well, you're the
12th-level intellect.
Why don't you figure it out?
Well, that rules out
the physical.
So, barring
another explanation,
I would have to say
the only thing keeping you here
is you.
Well, that doesn't
make any sense,
'cause I'm the one
that wants to get out of here.
Then why won't this thing open?
It opened for me earlier.
To let me in. Going out...
Different story.
Is there some reason
your subconscious might be--
Preventing your escape?
Self
I'm not afraid.
You were badly beaten.
Fear is a logical response
to that stimulus.
I am not afraid!
Come on, Kara, snap out of it.
Brainy will figure it out.
Don't overpromise.
I've never seen
anything like this before.
I'm sorry.
Insensitive.
What happens if
she stays like this?
The longer she
remains unconscious,
the more likely it is
that it will become permanent.
Reign's attacking again.
I'm getting us a feed.
She attacked a meth lab.
The cops arrived,
she attacked them, too.
I'll run another scan on Kara.
Mon-El.
We can't risk it.
Risk what?
So 1,000 years from now,
this farming planet, Winath,
goes dark.
Our friend, Ayla, she's from
there, so she goes
to check it out.
Winath was a paradise,
but Ayla made planet-fall
and found it--
Decimated.
It was completely dried out.
The creatures that did this,
we call them the Blight.
-They consume
everything in their path.
And Brainy found a way
to stop them,
but they were on us
before we could use it.
So we hid the information
in the safest place we could.
Our DNA.
Where it can't be lost,
can't be stolen.
It written in our genes.
So, if we die, our DNA
never makes it to the future.
And everything's lost.
You have no idea how badly
I wish we could help.
Just make sure
my sister wakes up.
J'onn, where are
you on Sundown?
Sound guns are almost done,
but the grenades will
take an hour, at least.
And we still don't know where
Reign is gonna strike next.
I think
I know how to get ahead of her.
Hey, boss, so, uh...
Uh, James just called.
I fail to see the relevance.
Well, it seems that he might
have put Kara into a little bit
of hot water
with Lena Luthor.
And since we have an hour...
Oh, no, not again.
The indignity.
Kara, you in there?
Yes.
Yes, I'm coming.
Lena, what a surprise.
Kara, you haven't
been answering my calls,
I've been worried.
Yes, I've just been
trying to sleep off this...
Flu.
-Um, well...
-Chicken soup.
That's very kind of you.
You believe what's been
going on out here?
Yes, I, uh, have been
keeping up with it.
I am a reporter at a national
news organization.
Yeah, I... I know.
You work for me.
That fever is really
going to your head.
You have no idea
how much I am
not feeling like myself.
Listen, I know this is
unimportant,
given everything that's
going on right now, but...
Yeah, it turns out
that you were right
about the chemistry.
Uh, James and I kissed.
Congratulations.
Well, yeah.
James is an amazing kisser,
as I'm sure you know.
It's just, this morning
he started acting really odd.
Olsen can be enigmatic.
Yeah, well, I know
what it's about.
I mean, my brother is Lex,
James is Superman's
best friend,
and, you know,
for a minute there I forgot
my last name was Luthor.
That's a mistake
I won't be making again.
Oh, I'm sure
that's not the case.
Olsen likes you.
A lot.
I assure you if James
is being awkward,
it is not because of
your last name.
And here I was coming
to make you feel better.
I should go back to work.
You should rest.
Yes, boss.
Agent Schott, don't ever
make me do that again.
No Supergirl, no cavalry,
and Reign is strong.
She doesn't know
what we're capable of.
-Let's show her.
I just had a conversation about
James Olsen's
extraordinary kissing ability.
This'll be a Sunday picnic.
Get on the ground!
Ger on the ground!
Don't look at me!
Get on the ground!
This is a robbery!
Don't look at me!
Don't touch that button!
Nobody move!
Hurry up!
You were warned.
Catch.
Light her up.
Now.
No!
Alex...
Are you okay?
Considering my tibia's
been snapped in half?
What about Reign?
She shrugged off
that Kryptonite
like it was nothing.
Argh! Yes, thanks.
That's good.
The same amount
incapacitated Kara.
So why was Reign resistant?
Maybe she's more
than just Kryptonian.
No, the soil did hurt her,
just not enough.
You have a plan?
Concentrate it.
We'll put it straight
in her bloodstream.
Jugular should work.
Ah. One... One small hiccup.
Uh, who would be strong enough
to hit her with the syringe?
We have people counting
on us in the future,
we can't get involved.
You keep saying that.
That this is not our fight.
What about Tommy and Gina?
Hmm?
"You live for the fight
when it's all that you've got."
-Bon Jovi.
-Mmm-hmm.
Or was that all a lie?
No. No, he speaks the truth.
I know we had a plan,
but we are supposed
to help people.
We're sworn to helping people.
And these people
need our help right now.
It's who we are.
Why are you cleaning?
None of this is real.
I don't know.
I guess I just like
putting things back in order.
And my brain originally
is like an empty little attic
and you must stock it with
such furniture as you choose.
It's Sherlock Holmes.
This is the furniture I chose.
Hmm.
Oversimplification.
But, yes, go on.
So there must be something
in here my subconscious
wants me to see.
Hmm. That's...
That's actually not a bad idea.
Why didn't I think of that?
I'm so sorry.
I did this.
I mean, I'm the one that
pushed you into that fight.
I told you that Kara Danvers
was my favorite person,
and then I told you
to forget who you were.
And now I'm...
I don't know if we can
do this without you.
Huh.
You had a pet?
Yeah.
But if this is my subconscious
trying to tell
myself something,
I don't get it.
Could be a random
neuron firing.
What's its name?
Streaky.
I, uh... I found him
on our street right after
I came to Earth, actually.
He was a stray, too.
You felt an emotional kinship.
Yes. Yeah.
We were friends.
I used to go out
every night and feed him.
I didn't wanna touch him.
I was so strong,
I could have hurt him.
So, I practiced being gentle.
And then, one day,
I pet him.
And he purred.
And everything was okay.
I felt like an alien
on Earth for so long,
and he helped me
feel like a human.
Reign is finding
bigger targets.
She wants to teach us
an abject lesson.
She's going to cleanse the
sinners of society locked away.
The ones that she feels
were granted mercy.
She's going to
hit Albatross Bay.
No, she's already there.
She's gonna kill everyone.
Prisoners, guards,
it won't matter.
They'll be fish in a barrel.
-I'll go.
-No, you can't.
Not alone.
She's too strong.
You know, we have been
asleep for many years.
And we ought to
get some exercise.
You're being facetious?
This guy.
Don't move!
Heir of Juru,
architect of the renewal,
I submit to you.
-For Rao is the light,
but he was born of fire.
How do you know those words?
I... I was awoken to them.
People are quick
to claim salvation
when faced with death.
Do you think that is enough
for me to spare you?
You don't have to spare me.
You just have to
let me serve you.
I think we got her attention.
You don't say.
You will not interfere
with my mission.
Interfering is our specialty.
I've only come to cleanse
the sin of this world.
Didn't feel like starting
with yourself then?
I'm not of this world.
Neither are we.
Engaging cannons.
Aloian attack formation.
Are you fighting?
Oh! Sprock!
Did I say that out loud?
What's going on out there?
Little, little,
tiny baby battle.
Actually,
let's keep talking.
It'll help get my mind of this
life-or-death scenario.
Your mind should be
on the life-or-death scenario.
I'm perfectly capable
of multitasking.
I'm actually working on your
Sunday crossword right now.
Six-down is "Anguilloform."
-Mon-El, evade!
-Don't be here, go help them.
For what it's worth,
it looks like Supergirl
had a pretty great life.
These aren't Supergirl's
things, they're...
They're Kara's.
Your sister said something
similar a few minutes ago.
What?
She said Kara Danvers
is her favorite person.
Careful, Brainy, you got
precious cargo on board.
Knocked out the tri-cannons.
-I'll need a minute
to get it back online.
Time to put you back
in the hole you came from.
Oh, my God. Kara.
Hey.
I have to help them.
No, they're using Kryptonite.
I don't care
if it makes me vulnerable,
I'll use it against her.
Reign won't see it coming.
If you defend a sinner,
you must be a sinner.
And I will wipe away
the sin of this world.
I thought you were dead.
I got better.
Now!
Now I cleanse you of your sin.
Hey, we beat her. For now.
Thanks for fighting
alongside us.
It was an honor.
-Hey, I'll be right back.
-Okay.
Hey, Kara.
I was really worried about you.
When you didn't wake up...
I still care about you.
I know.
It was great fighting
with you again.
Yeah.
I missed that.
Hey.
It's you.
Are you shorter?
Are you suggesting that I
augmented my height
while I existed
in your consciousness
so that you might see me
as a more stable
and trustworthy figure
and therefore work
with me to help you?
Uh, yeah?
Yes.
I did do exactly that.
Okay.
It's nice to meet you
in real life.
Do you ever sleep?
Yeah, well, Supergirl
just woke up from a coma
just in time to save
a bunch of convicts
who were about to be
wrongfully executed
by a murderous alien.
So, would you rather I
be sleeping or working?
Working.
How is she
She's still sick.
But, you know, we talked, and
despite her feverish delirium,
she made me realize
a few things.
I'm used to people reflexively
hating me because I'm a Luthor,
and I turned
you being awkward about Kara
into you being
awkward about me,
so I pushed you away.
And I don't want
to do that anymore.
Good.
Because I really like you,
Lena Luthor.
Come here.
And it's my masterpiece.
-Wow. That's something.
Wait, let me...
Do that.
What's this one?
One-zero-zero-one-zero-one--
-Brainiac-5.
-Oh. Yeah.
That's code.
So... So, I just have to
confirm that J'onn
pretended to be me, but sick,
and then he talked about
kissing James with Lena?
Yeah.
-Yeah.
It's weird.
I wish I could have seen that.
I'm just glad you're okay.
You know I'd come back.
I was really worried
about this one.
Genuinely.
But at least knowing
that Brainy could
communicate with you,
I mean, that helped.
-So weird.
It was, you know,
it was illuminating.
I had to remember who I was
in order to wake up.
Made me think differently about
the whole Mon-El situation.
How so?
I mean, it still hurts. A lot.
Yeah.
But...
I'll be stronger for it.
Whatever happens.
Yeah.
Well, I'm totally happy
for your newfound wisdom.
Um, maybe you
could avoid comas?
-In the future.
That would be...
I would really appreciate that.
-To be honest...
-You know what, I'll try.
Thank you very much.
-Yup, just got a
new case of red wine.
What happened?
Supergirl stopped me.
She had friends
I didn't expect.
You have friends, too.
What do you mean?
There are others like you.
Why didn't you tell me?
You hadn't proven yourself.
But now you have.
You just need to know
how to find them.
I can help you with the path.
El-may-arah.
Stronger together.